This subject was touched upon by last year's guest of honor to the Tension –
Paul Anderson, and had he made it his central subject, I should find myself with
no problem in my hands. But Paul's own subject was an appeal for a unitary
approach to science fiction, in which philosophy, love, technology, poetry, and
the elements of daily life all played important and roughly equal roles. Now,
this is an ideal prescription for good science fiction, but it's a good
prescription only because it is good for fiction as a whole. And indeed, no good
fiction of any kind has ever been produced in any other way. And I feel safe in
saying that none ever will. One-sided novels may be satire, or allegory, or tea
novels, a kind of novel where you don't know what's going on so you discover
that the character named Horace Mills FitzCamble is really Henry Luce. But there
are never complete novels, rare exceptions, and they have about as much lasting
power as these clean-necks. This description fits most science fiction very
well, and Paul did a very thorough job expanding upon it. But it seems to me
that Paul's unitary principle also goes a long way toward explaining why popular
or critical successes like 1984, Player of Piano, Limbo, Brave New World, Star
of the Unborn, and so on, never increase our audience or the prestige of our
idiom. We've asked ourselves time and time again why there's three. I think I
have an answer i'm not sure many of these books turn on gimmicks which to us are
old and stale and usually they handle those gimmicks clumsily and with varying
degrees of naivete if they come in an audience and respect which are much more
skeptical and experienced practitioners like i 안녕 or cool can't even get close
to it orwell had no reputation as a novelist he had written only one, keep the
evidence for fine, it was dreadful, and everybody said it was dreadful. Wolf and
Funagoop were virtually unknown. Nevertheless, these successes can be accounted
for. Each of these outside authors can visibly be seen to be thinking about
something. George Orwell was not simply pushing around the devices of that old
plot about the future Asiatic type despotism. in hopes of finding an animal
fresh enough to sell. The attention fundamental to say is about one of the great
philosophical problems of all time, the nature of the relationship between the
individual and the state. It's a small wonder that people, particularly in our
time, smashed up that book as they were bred in a famine. It's of no importance
that Orwell's futurist devices worked a little seedy and still want the little
seeds of this room full of gay specialists. What is important is that the
proposition he set out to show us is perhaps the most important contribution by
an artist to this problem since specifically he wrote The Antigone and perhaps
the first original proposition since then. This proposition which is the Dry
Heal of 1984 is only six more long, which is not, it's six words! This says, The
purpose of power is power. Not wealth, not luxury, not fame, not a woman a day,
and most certainly not the public welfare. But make it enjoyment of power for
its own sake. For most of the kind of people who are attracted to politics,
power is not a means to another end, but is in itself the greatest possible of
all ends. This is a pretty blood-hurdling notion. precisely because so much
history is been supported, particularly recent history, but not only is it
shocked, it commands attention in a way that the rats and the torture machines
in the very same chapter can't possibly do. I have one more example, and then I
will pass on. Verk媽 asks very much the same sort of question. The meaning in
this case it read... ...percental immortality, for once. In style of the unborn,
you will recall, people didn't die. They were scientifically changed into a sort
of vegetable organism and planted... ...so that, in effect, they lived forever
presuming I suppose somebody else wared them. The process sometimes went awry
and produced monstrosities. But if things were irreversible, they were just
thrown away. Amongst a certain age, had a tendency to resemble whatever
character defect a man had in his original life. A grasping man, for instance,
might turn into a huge flopping hand and arm. And so on. Here again, personal
limit of immortality in the flesh is an old science fiction subject, which I
have written about myself and so have you all. With the question of what is to
be done with all those years, time comes up. When it does, there's usually a
little ritual about how wonderful it would be to have all those lifetimes to
become experts in some subject or to pursue some gigantic project or to pursue
some gigantic project. Up then, for just months, it's not probable for one
person out of a thousand or maybe even a hundred thousand. For the rest of us,
the chances are much better than we would simply width or vegetate mindlessly,
like Verho's flowers, or become more and more single-mindedly and monstrously
the same kind of cripple or sinner that we learned when we got for 70 years. For
Verho who was a Catholic, it was perfectly obvious that the humans' psyche isn't
built to take the immortality of the flesh. which, to me, an agnostic, his
conclusion seems 100% right. So now, we have Orwell talking about the problem of
power, Sun adorned about the problem of gold, and careful about the problem of
time and mortality. All these books are about something. I submit to you that
very few science fiction stories, even the very best of them, are about
anything. and that in this sense they fail for the unitary test in the worst
possible way. For all their ingenuity of detail and their smoothies of
exercises, they show no signs of thinking. And by that I mean thinking about
problems that mean something to everyone. Not just about whether or not a match
will stay live in a situation, but rather to give it nothing else. And what
happens when a general reader fascinated by fun of good or careful or whoever
steps into our field for more of the same? You may very well notice that what he
is now reading is more adroit in some ways, but one game is going to last him
long. General readers and critics may be taken in temporarily by small groups in
the range which are new to But only temporarily. That is not the kind of thing
they admire in fiction, nor should they. Nor are they seeking to have their
sense of wonder stimulated. The genuine sense of wonder, which is a piece of
standard equipment in the human brain, can get along very well on what is
commonplace to the distractible. It does not need to be bludgeoned by an endless
succession of concocted and visibly spurious marvels. antimatter, galactic
collisions, and numbers of long strings of zeros after them do have their
fascination, but none of them is merely as awe-inspiring as a five-year-old girl
who happens to be yours. The way you move at Science Fiction Times can be
willing to reward me any headlines for having come to the Bitcoin and come out
foursquare in favor of fatherhood. All the same, it is true that wonders are
made, but none so wonderful as mine. Yet you may read several hundred science
fiction stories a year without finding more in their life, which reflects any
consciousness of the now and ancient axiom. The writer or reader, who still
thinks an exploding star is in her every more wonderful and the mind and heart
of the man who wonders at it, himself, is going to run out of these peripheral
wonders sooner or later, and then perhaps he will blame the readers or the
writers of the editors of the United Public where you've seen this process going
on a long time. What he is now seeking from fiction of all kinds, science
fiction included, not It's not a sense of wonder, it's a sense of conviction.
The feeling that the story you are reading is about something that is worth your
adult attention and that the author approached it in that light. Some few works
of great science-fiction are as serious and as rewarding as anything the authors
might have attempted outside our field. Childhood's End and More Than Human both
passed my proposed test magnificently but i have the awful feeling that many of
us continue to read science fiction and to write it for no better reason than
that it is comfortable and safe no matter how how outlandish it looks to
outsiders we can love with it and win used to it and i think it manifestly
impossible to write well about any subject that you that God is comfortable and
safe, nor to read it well if comfort and safety are what you're seeing. Food
science fiction is linear, and it is precisely the science fiction story that a
lot of people's teeth and shapes their convictions that finds its way into the
mainstream, and this is the essence of the difference. And by this, I don't need
an icon smashing. I personally feel quite certain that people will still be
reading Ted Sturgeon on the variety and nature of the love relationship. Long
after the advertising boys have brought their final offense and gone home and
are no longer there available to be satirized. Just as they still read the
panda's carmoba, the one even opened Uncle Tom's必 just although they were with
me in the same year. Lavery is dead, but the problems that we discuss in the
brothers are still with us, and they always will be. And we have reached the
stage where our physical horizons can't be expanded much more without bursting a
bubble of the physical universe. The ethical, the moral, the philosophical
horizons remain. And those are infinite. It is fair, I believe, that the realm
of good science fiction must fly. The point of death, my dear friends, and I'm
alone, must come to roughly the same conclusion. I quote, When you're suspending
reality, you and I. By the signs of the rocket ship and the radar and the time
machine, we indicate that the relationship between us has nothing to do with the
real world. By writing this stuff and by reading it, we advocate from action. we
give free faith to our unconscious drives and symbols. We write and read not
about the real world, but about ourselves and things within ourselves. This is
true. But it is not all true. The real world is not different from what we have
inside our skull. In fact, all we know about the real world is inside our skull.
This dichotomy which she describes is not a real dichotomy. The riddle in size
and section is all in the head. And that's where it must go. Otherwise, it's
just gadgetry and talk.
Back at the Interior of Academy on Bar's room, my visual goal speech teacher
used to tell me that I must never leave an audience with a genital point. But
this always provides them with some action they might take if they agree with
me. if it happens i have one handy the only place in our field in fact or any
kind of influence can be exerted on what gets written or what gets lost
next year when the magic time comes around and we have made up the list of five
or ten possible in each category and particularly in the novel because this is
where the influence gets made I suggest that you put aside your other reasons
for admiring your choices just temporarily and ask yourself about each type that
you have put down. Is it about anything? Nothing could be better for the help of
our field than to let every science fiction writer know beginning right now that
from now on there will be no escape from this question
well ladies and gentlemen that makes supreme a fitting end to this evening uh
baby just three thoughts uh i've been given a piece of news which i know would
of course give him the end of his meditation the uh as i mentioned earlier then
a great walk that's where it's actually been and i've looked into the bobbyn
library there except for the gift of his manuscripts and papers and books and
they will be kept there before the james fish archive this is a most admirable
and entertaining display of jean fish material has been mounted in the upstairs
part of the restaurant if you can look at that night or any time your party. And
finally, you'd like me, I know, to thank the other half, everyone who's taken
part in this program and provided an evening which Jim, I think, would have
enjoyed as much as we all have. And most importantly of all, I know you'd like
me to thank the person who arranged us every single bit of it duty-based studio.
Thank you all very much indeed for coming.